#  Release notes

**Beta**

This product is in a pre-release state and might change or have limited
support. For more information, see the [ product launch stages
](/products#product-launch-stages) .

This page documents production updates to AI Hub. You can periodically check
this page for announcements about new or updated features, bug fixes, known
issues, and deprecated functionality.

You can see the latest product updates for all of Google Cloud on the [ Google
Cloud release notes ](/release-notes) page.

To get the latest product updates delivered to you, add the URL of this page
to your [ feed reader
](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators) , or add the feed
URL directly: ` https://cloud.google.com/feeds/aihub-release-notes.xml `

##  August 19, 2019

**FEATURE:**

AI Hub has added technical guides, a new category of assets. Learn how to
implement complex artificial intelligence use cases by following the technical
guides on AI Hub.

  * [ Find and learn from technical guides on AI Hub ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/open-technical-guide) . 

##  August 07, 2019

**FEATURE:**

AI Hub has been updated to make it easier for your to find and reuse assets.
The AI Hub home page has been updated to make it easier to find assets that
your colleagues shared with you, and to feature high-quality public assets.
The asset taxonomy has been updated to make it easier to browse to find
assets. You can now keep track your favorite assets by clicking the asset's
star icon.

  * Visit the new home page on [ AI Hub ](https://aihub.cloud.google.com) . 

##  July 09, 2019

**FEATURE:**

AI Hub now provides access controls for sharing assets with individuals,
groups, or your entire organization.

  * Learn more about [ sharing assets with your colleagues ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/share-asset) . 

##  April 10, 2019

**FEATURE:**

AI Hub is available in _Beta_ release. Find and reuse machine learning
components. Share Jupyter notebooks, Kubeflow pipeline components, and trained
models with your colleagues. Deploy notebooks to AI Platform Notebooks from AI
Hub.

  * Get started [ sharing notebooks ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/publish-notebook) and learn how to [ deploy notebooks to AI Platform Notebooks ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/open-notebook) . 
  * [ Reuse Kubeflow pipeline components ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/use-component) to build your ML pipeline. 
  * Learn how to [ find and use trained models ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/use-model) on AI Hub, and start [ sharing models with your colleagues ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/publish-model) . 

##  November 08, 2018

**FEATURE:**

AI Hub is available in _Alpha_ release. AI Hub is a centralized repository for
developers and data scientists building artificial intelligence (AI) systems.
Find, share, and deploy machine learning (ML) pipelines. Experiment with code
in hosted Jupyter (Colaboratory) notebooks. Use pre-trained ML APIs, reuse
TensorFlow modules, and explore all the shared components in AI Hub:

  * Understand the [ concepts ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/introduction) used in AI Hub. 
  * To get started, find an interactive Jupyter notebook amongst the [ public assets ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/public-hub-quickstart) , and publish a notebook in your [ organization's collection of assets ](https://cloud.google.com/ai-hub/docs/private-hub-quickstart) . 

