#  Security bulletins

All security bulletins for Anthos GKE on-prem (GKE on-prem) are described in
this topic.

Vulnerabilities are often kept secret under embargos until affected parties
have had a chance to address them. In these cases, GKE on-prem's [ Release
notes ](/anthos/gke/docs/on-prem/release-notes) will refer to "security
updates" until the embargo has been lifted. At that point the notes will be
updated to reflect the vulnerability the patch addressed.

**Note:** If you run multi-tenant workloads on GKE on-prem, please pay
particular attention to these bulletins. These vulnerabilities are more likely
to impact multi-tenant workloads. For a technical description of security
boundaries in GKE on-prem and how these impact workloads, see [ Isolation at
different layers of the Kubernetes stack
](https://cloudplatform.googleblog.com/2018/05/Exploring-container-security-
Isolation-at-different-layers-of-the-Kubernetes-stack.html) .

To get the latest security bulletins delivered to you, add the URL of this
page to your [ feed reader
](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators) .

##  GCP-2020-004

Description  |  Severity  |  Notes  
---|---|---  
  
A vulnerability was recently discovered in Kubernetes, described in [
CVE-2019-11254 ](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-
bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11254) , which allows any user authorized to
make POST requests to execute a remote Denial-of-Service attack on a
Kubernetes API server. The Kubernetes Product Security Committee (PSC)
released additional information on this vulnerability which can be found [
here ](https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-security-announce/c/wuwEwZigXBc)
.

You can mitigate this vulnerability by limiting which clients have network
access to your Kubernetes API servers.

####  What should I do?

We recommend that you upgrade your clusters to patch versions containing the
fix for this vulnerability as soon as they are available.

The patch versions which contain the fix are listed below:

  * Anthos 1.3.0, which runs Kubernetes version 1.15.7-gke.32 

####  What vulnerabilities are addressed by this patch?

The patch fixes the following Denial-of-Service (DoS) vulnerability:

[ CVE-2019-11254 ](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-
bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11254) .

|

Medium

|

[ CVE-2019-11254 ](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-
bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11254)  
  
##  October 16, 2019

Description  |  Severity  |  Notes  
---|---|---  
  
A vulnerability was recently discovered in Kubernetes, described in [
CVE-2019-11253 ](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-
bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11253) , which allows any user authorized to
make POST requests to execute a remote Denial-of-Service attack on a
Kubernetes API server. The Kubernetes Product Security Committee (PSC)
released additional information on this vulnerability which can be found [
here ](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/kubernetes-security-
announce/jk8polzSUxs) .

You can mitigate this vulnerability by limiting which clients have network
access to your Kubernetes API servers.

######  What should I do?

We recommend that you [ upgrade your clusters ](/anthos/gke/docs/on-prem/how-
to/upgrading-clusters) to a patch version containing the fix as soon as they
are available.

The patch versions which will contain the fix are listed below:

  * Anthos 1.1.1, which runs Kubernetes version 1.13.7-gke.30 

######  What vulnerability is addressed by this patch?

The patch mitigates the following vulnerability: [ CVE-2019-11253
](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11253) .

|

High

|

[ CVE-2019-11253 ](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-
bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11253)  
  
##  August 23, 2019

Description  |  Severity  |  Notes  
---|---|---  
  
We recently discovered and mitigated a vulnerability where the RBAC proxy used
for securing monitoring endpoints did not correctly authorize users. As a
result, metrics from certain components are available to unauthorized users
from within the internal cluster network. The following components were
affected:

  * ` etcd `
  * ` etcd-events `
  * ` kube-apiserver `
  * ` kube-controller-manager `
  * ` kube-scheduler `
  * ` node-exporter `
  * ` kube-state-metrics `
  * ` prometheus `
  * ` alertmanager `

######  What should I do?

We recommend that you [ upgrade ](/anthos/gke/docs/on-prem/how-to/upgrading-
clusters) your clusters to version [ 1.0.2-gke.3 ](/anthos/gke/docs/on-
prem/downloads#gkectl_latest) , which includes the patch for this
vulnerability, as soon as possible.

|

Medium

|

[ Anthos GKE on-prem releases ](/anthos/gke/docs/on-
prem/downloads#gkectl_latest)  
  
##  August 22, 2019

Description  |  Severity  |  Notes  
---|---|---  
  
Kubernetes recently discovered a vulnerability, [ CVE-2019-11247
](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11247) , which
allows cluster-scoped [ custom resource
](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-
resources/) instances to be acted on as if they were namespaced objects
existing in all Namespaces. This means user and service accounts with only
namespace-level RBAC permissions can interact with cluster-scoped custom
resources. Exploiting this vulnerability requires the attacker to have
privileges to access the resource in any namespace.

######  What should I do?

We recommend that you [ upgrade ](/anthos/gke/docs/on-prem/how-to/upgrading-
clusters) your clusters to version [ 1.0.2-gke.3 ](/anthos/gke/docs/on-
prem/downloads#gkectl_latest) , which includes the patch for this
vulnerability, as soon as possible.

######  What vulnerability is addressed by this patch?

The patch mitigates the following vulnerability: [ CVE-2019-11247
](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11247) .

|

Medium

|

[ CVE-2019-11247 ](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-
bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11247)

