#  Notas da versão

Nesta página estão documentadas as atualizações de produção do Cloud Tools for
Eclipse. Consulte esta página para ver avisos sobre recursos novos ou
atualizados, correções de bugs, problemas conhecidos e funcionalidades
obsoletas.

É possível ver as atualizações mais recentes de todos os produtos do Google
Cloud na página [ Notas da versão do Google Cloud
](https://cloud.google.com/release-notes?hl=pt-br) .

Para receber as atualizações de produtos mais recentes, adicione o URL desta
página ao [ leitor de feeds
](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators) ou adicione o URL
do feed diretamente: ` https://cloud.google.com/feeds/eclipse-release-
notes.xml `

##  February 27, 2020

**FIXED:**

Cloud client libraries that have dependencies in the Google Android Maven
repository can now be resolved.

**DEPRECATED:**

Eclipse 4.7 is no longer supported. This is the last release that supports
Eclipse 4.8. The minimum Eclipse version for the next release of Cloud Tools
for Eclipse will be 4.9.

##  December 11, 2019

**CHANGED:**

1.8.3

**FEATURE:**

The App Engine project wizards include a new, optional page for choosing
libraries to add to the project.

**CHANGED:**

App Engine Projects configured for the no longer available Java 7 runtime are
now treated as errors and cannot be deployed.

**FIXED:**

The Dataflow project wizard now automatically configures projects to use Java
8.

**DEPRECATED:**

This is the last release that supports Eclipse 4.7 and 4.8. The minimum
Eclipse version for the next release of Cloud Tools for Eclipse will likely be
4.9.

##  June 26, 2019

**CHANGED:**

1.8.2

**FIXED:**

The debugger works again with the local development server.

**ISSUE:**

Dataflow projects do not work with Java 9 or later. If you are running Eclipse
with Java 11 and use the new Dataflow project wizard, you need to manually
configure the project to use Java 8 before it will run.

##  June 20, 2019

**CHANGED:**

1.8.1

**ISSUE:**

You cannot debug applications running in the local development server.

**CHANGED:**

The new Dataflow project wizards now generate Java 8 projects.

**CHANGED:**

App Engine Standard projects now use Objectify 6 instead of Objectify 5.

**FEATURE:**

More Google Cloud client libraries have been added.

**FEATURE:**

Cosmetic improvements to the Dataflow run configuration dialog.

**FIXED:**

The MockHttpServletResponse class has fewer warnings.

**ISSUE:**

Icons in menus and the welcome pages do not appear in some environments.

##  January 14, 2019

**CHANGED:**

1.8.0

**CHANGED:**

The deprecated App Engine standard Java 7 runtime will soon be removed from
production. In this release of Cloud Tools for Eclipse, the new project
wizards only generate Java 8 App Engine projects. A warning dialog is
displayed when attempting to deploy a Java 7 project. Warning markers are
shown on Java 7 and Java 6 projects. Quick fixes are available to convert Java
7 and Java 6 projects to Java 8 projects.

**FEATURE:**

Quick fixes in the source editor have a larger target area including start and
end-tags.

**FIXED:**

An uncommon null pointer exception that could occur when a project was deleted
has been fixed.

**FIXED:**

` min-instances ` can now be set to zero in appengine-web.xml for automatic
scaling.

**ISSUE:**

If you downgrade or remove the runtime element in appengine-web.xml, you may
see multiple build errors until you clean or rebuild the entire project.

##  July 10, 2018

**CHANGED:**

1.7.1

**FEATURE:**

Additional configuration information is generated for new App Engine flexible
environment projects that include Objectify 6.0.

**FEATURE:**

The welcome screen items have been rewritten and expanded.

**FIXED:**

The managed Cloud SDK installer is more robust when a Cloud SDK update is
rolled back.

##  June 01, 2018

**CHANGED:**

1.7.0

**FEATURE:**

The Eclipse Project Explorer includes a new App Engine content block for easy
access to appengine-web.xml, web.xml, cron.xml, dos.xml, and other
configuration information.

**FEATURE:**

datastore-indexes.xml files that are automatically generated by the locally
running dev_appserver can now be merged into the indexes.xml file when the
server stops.

**FEATURE:**

Objectify 6.0 is now supported in the App Engine flexible environment.
Objectify 5.x is used in the App Engine standard environment.

**FIXED:**

Shortened the path to the managed Cloud SDK on Windows to try to stay under
the 255 character limit.

##  April 05, 2018

**CHANGED:**

1.6.1

**FEATURE:**

The google-cloud-java bill of materials is now included and used in the
pom.xml files for new App Engine projects.

**CHANGED:**

The App Engine SDK library (com.google.appengine:appengine-sdk-1.0-api) is no
longer included in the App Engine standard runtime definition. To use classes
from this jar, you must explicitly include this library in your project.
Select your project in the Package Explorer and from the context menu select
**Build Path > Add Libraries > Google Cloud Platform Libraries > App Engine
API ** and press **Finish** . If you have an existing Maven project that
depends on this library, remove ` <scope>provided</scope> ` from the
appengine-sdk-1.0-api dependency in your pom.xml. The App Engine SDK jar will
be removed from the server runtime in the future.

##  March 12, 2018

**CHANGED:**

1.6.0

**FEATURE:**

Cloud Tools for Eclipse can now automatically download and maintain the Cloud
SDK if the SDK is not found locally. You can learn more about this feature in
the [ Managing the SDK for Your Project
](https://cloud.google.com/eclipse/docs/manage-sdk?hl=pt-br) guide, including
how you can update the SDK management preference.

**FEATURE:**

The Eclipse status bar now displays the Google Cloud Platform service status.

**CHANGED:**

Cloud Tools for Eclipse no longer supports Eclipse 4.5 Mars. Eclipse 4.6 Neon
is now the minimum required version.

**CHANGED:**

Cloud Tools for Eclipse marks the App Engine standard Java 7 runtime as
deprecated.

**FIXED:**

Fixed a bug that local servers cannot be stopped in certain situations.

**FIXED:**

Fixed an issue that JARs downloaded while creating an App Engine project are
sometimes corrupted.

##  January 31, 2018

**CHANGED:**

1.5.1

**FEATURE:**

New projects now use the latest available release versions of the Maven App
Engine plugin and the Google Cloud Libraries for Java.

**FIXED:**

Fixed a bug that sometimes caused local servers to hang on launch.

##  December 07, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.5.0

**FEATURE:**

YEdit and Dockerfile Editor are now optional installs, alongside the core
Cloud Tools for Eclipse.

**FEATURE:**

Service keys can be added to the local run for access to cloud services.

**FEATURE:**

You can add and remove Cloud Libraries for Java from Eclipse projects.

**CHANGED:**

Converted projects now default to Java 8 and the java8 runtime.

**FIXED:**

Deployment is more reliable for users with access to many hundreds of GCP
projects.

##  October 30, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.4.1

**FIXED:**

App Engine standard environment projects that depend on classes from `
appengine-api-1.0-sdk.jar ` should no longer encounter ` NoClassDefFoundError
` s when running on the local server.

**FEATURE:**

When adding a Google library to a project for which no GA release version
exists, Eclipse now picks the most recent beta or alpha version.

**CHANGED:**

The "Google APIs" library has been renamed "Google Cloud Client Libraries for
Java" to more accurately describe its contents.

##  October 19, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.4.0

**FEATURE:**

Maven projects that package a runnable JAR—for example, Spring Boot or Spark
Java applications—can be deployed to the App Engine flexible environment Java
runtime.

**FEATURE:**

Individual WAR files and runnable JAR archives can be deployed to the App
Engine flexible environment, whether created by Eclipse or not.

**FEATURE:**

All google-cloud-java libraries can be added to Java 8 Eclipse projects and
Java 7 non-App Engine projects. The subset of these libraries that work in the
App Engine standard Java 7 runtime can be added to Java 7 App Engine projects.

**CHANGED:**

Google managed library jars are now added to a single Google APIs container,
rather than separate library containers.

**CHANGED:**

Java 8 and Servlet 3.1 are now the default environment in the new project
wizards. New projects should start with Java 8.

**CHANGED:**

In native projects the App Engine SDK (com.google.appengine:appengine-
sdk-1.0-api) is now included in the App Engine standard runtime definition, as
it is in the server runtime.

**CHANGED:**

The App Engine standard runtime no longer includes JSTL ( ` jstl:jstl ` ) to
allow alternative implementations. If you need to add JSTL to an existing
project, you can download the [ Apache Standard Tag Library jar from Maven
Central ](http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/jstl/jstl/1.2/) and place it in your
project's WEB-INF/lib directory.

**ISSUE:**

App Engine standard environment projects that depend on classes from `
appengine-api-1.0-sdk.jar ` may encounter ` NoClassDefFoundError ` s when
running on the local server. Deployment and production environments are not
affected.

To work around this in a Maven project, remove remove `
<scope>provided</scope> ` from the appengine-api-1.0-sdk ` dependency `
element in ` pom.xml ` . In a non-Maven project, copy the ` appengine-
api-1.0-sdk.jar ` into the ` WEB-INF/lib ` folder and refresh the project. You
can [ download this jar from Maven Central
](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/google/appengine/appengine-
api-1.0-sdk/1.9.58/) .

**ISSUE:**

Adding the Endpoints library to your project will add a dependency on the
Servlet API 2.5, even in Java 8 projects that already depend on the Servlet
API 3.1.

**ISSUE:**

If your existing projects have the old style Google API library container,
you'll need to upgrade them to the single "Google APIs" container. Select the
project and use the context menu to select **Configure > Update Project for
Cloud Tools for Eclipse ** .

##  September 13, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.3.1

**FEATURE:**

New project templates use HTML 5, Servlet 3.1, UTF-8 encoding, and Endpoints
2.0 where appropriate.

**FEATURE:**

The Cloud Dataflow new project wizard appears on the toolbar button and works
with the latest archetypes and SDK versions.

##  August 07, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.3.0

**FEATURE:**

Cloud Dataflow is now supported.

**FEATURE:**

You can filter GCP projects by name or project ID in the Project selector
dialogs.

**FEATURE:**

App Engine Standard Maven projects are now recognized when imported into
Eclipse.

**CHANGED:**

Maven based projects no longer use a separate wizard or archetypes. Maven is
now added by selecting a checkbox in the New App Engine Standard Project
wizard.

##  June 12, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.2.0

**FEATURE:**

The App Engine flexible environment Java 8 runtime is now supported. You can
create and deploy new flex projects. You can import and convert existing Java
servlet projects for use in the flexible environment. Apps can be run locally
by installing the [ Eclipse Jetty Integration ](https://eclipse-
jetty.github.io/) .

**FIXED:**

Conversion of GPE projects that use the API manager results in fewer
(hopefully zero) build errors.

##  May 17, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.1.0

**FEATURE:**

Java 8 is supported by the local server. To enable this set the Java facet
version to 1.8 in the Eclipse project properties and add `
<runtime>java8</runtime> ` to appengine-web.xml. You can deploy a Java 8
Eclipse project to the App Engine standard environment if and only if the
Google Cloud project you're deploying to is whitelisted for Java 8 support.

**FEATURE:**

Login now shows profile pictures.

**FIXED:**

Resolved several issues that could lead to NullPointerExceptions.

##  April 12, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0.3

**FEATURE:**

Autocomplete in appengine-web.xml.

**FIXED:**

You can run multiple local servers at the same time on different ports.

**FIXED:**

The correct admin server URL is displayed in the Eclipse console.

##  April 04, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0.2

**FEATURE:**

cron.xml, datastore-indexes.xml, dispatch.xml, dos.xml, and/or queue.xml can
now be deployed from within the IDE.

**FEATURE:**

New **Submit issue or feedback...** menu item for in-app bug reporting.

**FIXED:**

webapp folders are not configured as Java packages when converting an existing
project.

**FIXED:**

Installing Cloud Tools for Eclipse no longer uninstalls the Android Developer
Tools.

**FIXED:**

Pre-quick fix versions of XML files now appear in Eclipse's local history.

##  March 16, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0.1

**FEATURE:**

You can now add libraries to an Eclipse project after new project creation.

**FEATURE:**

The deploy dialog includes a refresh button.

**FEATURE:**

The JSTL jar is now added by default.

**FIXED:**

Applying a quick fix to an appengine-web.xml file with unsaved changes does
not overwrite those changes.

**FIXED:**

If a project has build errors, **Run As > App Engine ** prompts before running
the server.

##  March 01, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0.0

**FEATURE:**

This is the same as Beta 16, only served from a new stable URL.

##  February 23, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 16 RC 1

**FIXED:**

**Run As > App Engine ** waits for a modified file to be saved before it
launches the local server.

**ISSUE:**

When running a local server, the console says that the admin server can be
found at http://localhost:59027/_ah/admin. This is incorrect. The admin server
is found at http://localhost:8000/.

**ISSUE:**

Applying a quick fix to an appengine-web.xml file with unsaved changes will
overwrite those changes. Please save all changes before applying a quick fix.

**ISSUE:**

If a project has build errors, **Run As > App Engine ** does not prompt before
running the server.

##  February 16, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 15

**FEATURE:**

The deployed App Engine application is automatically opened in a web browser.

**FEATURE:**

When available, names are displayed in the accounts panel along with email
addresses.

**FEATURE:**

You can choose from a list of available GCP projects when deploying, rather
than having to type a project ID.

**FEATURE:**

Warn user when appengine-web.xml contains an ` application ` element.

**ISSUE:**

**Run As > App Engine ** does not wait for a modified file to be saved before
it launches the local server.

**FIXED:**

No more deadlocks (we hope) when creating new projects in milestone 5 of
Eclipse Oxygen or Eclipse Neon 4.6.3 beta.

##  February 06, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 11

**FIXED:**

Recognize when Maven central is unreachable and warn the user, rather than
creating an unbuildable project.

**ISSUE:**

The latest milestone 5 of Eclipse Oxygen and beta of Neon 4.6.3 can [ deadlock
when creating new projects.
](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=511793) This does not occur in
Eclipse 4.5 Mars or Neon 4.6.2 and earlier.

##  January 30, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 10

**FEATURE:**

One click conversion of existing App Engine Eclipse projects, including Maven
and GPE projects, to Cloud Tools for Eclipse projects.

**FIXED:**

The legacy Google Plugin for Eclipse is once again automatically uninstalled
when Cloud Tools for Eclipse is installed.

**ISSUE:**

Creating a new App Engine project when you can't connect to Maven Central —
for example, because Wi-Fi is turned off — results in an unbuildable project.

##  January 18, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 9

**FEATURE:**

Toolbar dropdown menu for performing App Engine tasks including generating new
projects, running locally, and deploying.

**FEATURE:**

Added a favicon.ico to the generated App Engine native project.

**FIXED:**

Projects can launch as long as you've selected a file from the project in the
Package or Project Explorer. You no longer need to select the entire project.

**ISSUE:**

Cannot detect the version of the Cloud SDK installed by various Linux package
managers. If this causes problems, you can download a [ zip of the Cloud SDK
](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/downloads?hl=pt-br#versioned) and point Cloud
Tools for Eclipse to that.

**ISSUE:**

The legacy Google Plugin for Eclipse is not automatically uninstalled when
Cloud Tools for Eclipse is installed. You should manually uninstall it before
installing Cloud Tools for Eclipse.

##  January 09, 2017

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 8

**FIXED:**

Fixed several race conditions.

**CHANGED:**

More complete autodetection of existing Cloud SDK installation on Linux.

**FEATURE:**

Service elements in the non-Maven new project wizard.

##  December 20, 2016

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 7

**CHANGED:**

Redesigned, simplified dialogs and new project wizards.

**FEATURE:**

Context menu item for one-click run on local server.

**CHANGED:**

Simplified import of existing GPE and other Eclipse servlet projects.

##  December 09, 2016

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 6

**CHANGED:**

Cloud SDK minimum version is now 133.

**CHANGED:**

GPE must be uninstalled before installing Cloud Tools for Eclipse.

**FEATURE:**

Customized help in the new project wizards.

**FEATURE:**

Tool tips.

##  December 07, 2016

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 5

**FEATURE:**

Look for the Cloud SDK in the LOCALAPPDATA directory on Windows.

**FEATURE:**

Warn user when the Cloud SDK is too old (currently 130 or earlier).

**FEATURE:**

New App Engine icons.

**FIXED:**

Progress monitors in the new project wizards more accurately track progress.

##  November 23, 2016

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 4

**FEATURE:**

The plugin is now signed with the Google private key.

**FIXED:**

Now runs on any flavor of Eclipse 4.5 or later. Eclipse for Java EE is no
longer required.

##  November 03, 2016

**CHANGED:**

1.0 Beta 1

**FEATURE:**

New App Engine Project Wizards.

**FEATURE:**

Local run and debug in an App Engine emulator.

**FEATURE:**

Deployment to App Engine standard environment.

**ISSUE:**

The plugin is not yet signed. You will see a warning when installing from the
update site.

