#  Release notes

This page documents updates to Google Cloud IoT Core. You can periodically
check this page for announcements about new or updated features, bug fixes,
known issues, and deprecated functionality.

You can see the latest product updates for all of Google Cloud on the [ Google
Cloud release notes ](/release-notes) page.

To get the latest product updates delivered to you, add the URL of this page
to your [ feed reader
](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators) , or add the feed
URL directly: ` https://cloud.google.com/feeds/iot-release-notes.xml `

##  February 20, 2019

**FEATURE:**

The [ Gateways ](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/how-tos/gateways) feature
is now generally available.

##  December 11, 2018

**FEATURE:**

The [ Gateways ](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/how-tos/gateways) feature
is now in beta.

##  December 04, 2018

**FEATURE:**

The [ Device Commands ](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/how-tos/commands)
feature is now generally available.

**FEATURE:**

The [ Device Activity Logging ](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/how-
tos/device-logs) feature is now generally available.

##  October 09, 2018

**FEATURE:**

The [ Device Commands ](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/how-tos/commands)
feature is now in beta.

**FEATURE:**

The [ Device Activity Logging ](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/how-
tos/device-logs) feature is now in beta.

##  July 13, 2018

**CHANGED:**

The [ Support ](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/getting-support) page
received small improvements and the Cloud IoT Core discussion group was
removed.

##  February 21, 2018

**FEATURE:**

**General Availability release.** Announced general availability of Google
Cloud Internet of Things (IoT) Core.

**FEATURE:**

Device registries can now have multiple associated Cloud Pub/Sub topics. For
more information, see [ Creating a device registry with multiple Pub/Sub
topics ](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/how-
tos/devices#creating_a_device_registry_with_multiple_pubsub_topics) .

**FEATURE:**

Pricing examples have been added to the [ Pricing
](https://cloud.google.com/iot/pricing) page for MQTT and HTTP clients.

**FEATURE:**

The Cloud IoT Core gcloud commands are now at the [ General Availability
release level ](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/#release_levels) . The `
beta ` label is no longer required.

**FEATURE:**

An [ interactive tutorial
](https://console.cloud.google.com/start?tutorial=iot_core_quickstart) version
of the Quickstart is available.

**FEATURE:**

A sample for [ how to send large configuration updates to a device
](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/samples/device-manager-
samples#send_a_large_file_to_a_device) is available.

**FEATURE:**

Samples have been added for the following languages: C#, Go, and Ruby.

**FEATURE:**

A Cloud IoT Core [ discussion group
](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/getting-support) is available.

**CHANGED:**

A new IAM role enables publishing to Cloud Pub/Sub. The global Cloud IoT Core
service account is no longer used. For details, see [ Troubleshooting
](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/troubleshooting#im_not_receiving_telemetry_data_on_cloud_pubsub)
.

**CHANGED:**

The [ API documentation ](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/reference/rest/)
has been restructured to differentiate between the two sets of resources in
the Cloud IoT Core API: [ ` cloudiot `
](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/reference/cloudiot/rest/) and [ `
cloudiotdevice `
](https://cloud.google.com/iot/docs/reference/cloudiotdevice/rest/) .

**DEPRECATED:**

Version v1beta1 of the ` projects.locations.registries.devices ` API resource
is deprecated.

##  September 27, 2017

**FEATURE:**

**Public beta release.** Google Cloud Internet of Things (IoT) Core is a fully
managed service for securely connecting and managing IoT devices, from a few
to millions. Ingest data from connected devices and build rich applications
that integrate with the other big data services of Google Cloud Platform.

