#  Versionshinweise

Diese Seite enthält die neuesten Versionshinweise für Funktionen und Updates
von Google Cloud Marketplace.

Die neuesten Produktaktualisierungen für Google Cloud finden Sie auf der Seite
mit den [ Google Cloud-Versionshinweisen ](https://cloud.google.com/release-
notes?hl=de) .

Für neueste Produktaktualisierungen können Sie die URL der Seite in den [
Feedreader ](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators)
einfügen oder die Feed-URL direkt hinzufügen: `
https://cloud.google.com/feeds/gcpmarketplace-release-notes.xml ` .

##  April 14, 2020

**CHANGED:**

Security software agents on Google Cloud Marketplace are now **Generally
available** .

Security software agents are typically part of larger security solutions, and
can be deployed to VM instances in your projects.

[ Learn about Deploying security software agents
](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/deploy-security-software-
agents?hl=de) .

##  February 27, 2020

**FEATURE:**

You can deploy security software agents, which are typically part of larger
security solutions, from Google Cloud Marketplace to the VM instances in your
projects.

[ Learn about Deploying security software agents
](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/deploy-security-software-
agents?hl=de) .

##  May 10, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Vendors of managed services and Kubernetes applications can now offer trials
of their software. During trials, you can use the software without paying for
the software license.

For information on how you are billed during a trial, see [ Understanding
Billing ](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/understanding-
billing?hl=de) .

##  April 09, 2019

**CHANGED:**

Some vendors provide Kubernetes applications that can run on GKE On-Prem
clusters, and clusters that run Istio.

Learn about the [ prerequisites for running Kubernetes applications with GKE
On-Prem or Istio ](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/kubernetes-
apps/?hl=de#on-prem-istio-prereqs) .

**FEATURE:**

Kubernetes applications on GCP Marketplace are now **Generally Available** .

For steps to set up a billing plan for Kubernetes applications, see [ Managing
Billing Plans for Kubernetes Applications
](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/kubernetes-apps/manage-billing-
kubernetes?hl=de) .

##  July 23, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Vendors of VM solutions can offer trials of their software. During trials, you
can use the software without paying for the software license.

For information on how you are billed during a trial, see [ Understanding
Billing ](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/understanding-
billing?hl=de) .

##  July 18, 2018

**CHANGED:**

Google Cloud Launcher is now Google Cloud Platform Marketplace.

**FEATURE:**

GCP Marketplace now includes commercial Kubernetes applications, which you can
deploy to your Google Kubernetes Engine clusters.

For steps to set up a billing plan for Kubernetes applications, see [ Managing
Billing Plans for Kubernetes Applications
](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/kubernetes-apps/manage-billing-
kubernetes?hl=de) .

**DEPRECATED:**

The container registry ` launcher.gcr.io ` is deprecated. For steps you need
to take to modify your scripts or configurations, as applicable, see [
Deploying Containers ](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/container-
images?hl=de) .

