#  Release notes

This page documents production updates to Cloud Profiler. You can periodically
check this page for announcements about new or updated features, bug fixes,
known issues, and deprecated functionality.

To get the latest product updates delivered to you, add the URL of this page
to your [ feed reader
](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators) , or add the feed
URL directly: ` https://cloud.google.com/feeds/stackdriver-release-notes.xml `

##  March 24, 2020

**CHANGED:**

Integration of Stackdriver Profiler with Virtual Private Cloud Service
Controls is now Generally Available. For more information, see [ VPC Service
Controls documentation ](https://cloud.google.com/vpc-service-controls/docs/)
.

##  December 13, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Strackdriver Profiler supports Istio on Google Kubernetes Engine for [ Go
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/profiling-go) , [ Java
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/profiling-java) , [ Python
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/profiling-python) , and [ Node.js
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/profiling-nodejs) services. This
feature is now in **Beta** .

##  December 10, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Integration of Stackdriver Profiler with Virtual Private Cloud Service
Controls is now beta. For more information, see [ VPC Service Controls
documentation ](https://cloud.google.com/vpc-service-controls/docs/) .

##  May 08, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Java 11 is now supported. For more information, see [ Profiling Java
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/profiling-java) .

##  March 26, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Stackdriver Profiler is now generally available. Stackdriver Profiler lets you
analyze and understand the performance of your Go, Java, Node.js or Python
applications. For more information, see [ About Stackdriver Profiler
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/about-profiler) .

##  March 12, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Python is now supported. For more information, see [ Profiling Python
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/profiling-python) .

##  February 28, 2019

**FEATURE:**

The new **Color mode** filter option lets you color the flame graph frames by
package name, by the metric consumption of the function, or by the metric
consumption of the function and its children. For more information, see [
Color mode ](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/filtering-profiles#color-
filter) .

##  December 07, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Go 1.11 for App Engine standard environment is now supported. For more
information, see [ Profiling Go
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/profiling-go) .

##  August 02, 2018

**FEATURE:**

The new **Weight** filter lets you select and graph profiles that consume the
most of the profile's measured metric. For more information, see [ Weight
filter ](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/selecting-profiles#weight-
filter) .

##  July 24, 2018

**FEATURE:**

The new **Compare To** option lets you compare profiles that differ by end
time, zone, or service version. For more information, see [ Comparing profiles
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/comparing-profiles) .

##  May 15, 2018

**FEATURE:**

The new **Focus** filter lets you analyze the aggregate resource consumption
of a specific function and the proportion of time spent in the function by
different callers. For more information, see [ Using the **Focus** Filter
](https://cloud.google.com/profiler/docs/filtering-profiles#focus-filter) .

##  March 28, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Stackdriver Profiler is released in Beta.

