#  Release Notes

This page documents production updates to Resource Manager. You can
periodically check this page for announcements about new or updated features,
bug fixes, known issues, and deprecated functionality.

You can see the latest product updates for all of Google Cloud on the [ Google
Cloud release notes ](/release-notes) page.

To get the latest product updates delivered to you, add the URL of this page
to your [ feed reader
](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators) , or add the feed
URL directly: ` https://cloud.google.com/feeds/cloudresourcemanager-release-
notes.xml `

##  April 10, 2020

**FEATURE:**

The Organization Policy Service resource locations constraint has launched for
general availability. This constraint allows you to define the location where
your resources are created, providing important data location compliance
tools. For more information, see the [ Restricting Resource Locations
](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/organization-policy/defining-
locations) .

##  January 30, 2020

**FEATURE:**

[ VPC Service Controls ](https://cloud.google.com/vpc-service-controls/) (VPC
SC) helps you to set up a secure perimeter to guard against data exfiltration.
The [ VPC SC Organization Policies
](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/securing/using-vpc-service-controls)
have been launched into public beta.

##  January 10, 2020

**FEATURE:**

The [ IAM Domain Restriction ](https://cloud.google.com/resource-
manager/docs/organization-policy/restricting-domains) Organization Policies
have been launched into general availability.

##  September 12, 2019

**FEATURE:**

The Organization Policies for [ service account management
](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/organization-
policy/restricting-service-accounts) have been launched into general
availability.

##  June 26, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Resource location restriction constraint beta release

The Organization Policy Service resource locations constraint allows you to
define the location where your resources are created. For more information,
see the [ quickstart ](https://cloud.google.com/resource-
manager/docs/organization-policy/quickstart-constraints) or the [ how-to guide
](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/organization-policy/defining-
locations) .

##  October 11, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Organization policy administrative UI beta release

The Organization Policy Service administrative UI allows you to [ create and
manage organization policies ](https://cloud.google.com/resource-
manager/docs/organization-policy/creating-managing-policies) in the Google
Cloud Platform Console.

##  August 02, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Organization setup wizard beta release

The organization setup wizard UI makes it easier for you to delegate setup and
management of Organization resources to other users, assign fundamental Cloud
IAM roles to users, and import existing projects and billing accounts to your
organization.

##  July 12, 2018

**FEATURE:**

[ Service account restriction ](https://cloud.google.com/resource-
manager/docs/organization-policy/restricting-service-accounts) organization
policy constraint beta release

The service account restriction constraint can be used to limit the usage of
Cloud Identity and Access Management service accounts.

##  July 09, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Domain restriction organization policy constraint beta release

The [ domain restriction ](https://cloud.google.com/resource-
manager/docs/organization-policy/restricting-domains) constraint can be used
to restrict the set of identities that can be used in Cloud Identity and
Access Management policies.

##  March 12, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Audit Logging for ` ContactInfo ` Beta Release

[ Audit Logging ](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/audit-
logging) support has been expanded to support the European Union General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR). The ` UpdateContactInfo ` and ` GetContactInfo `
operations have been added to the list of audited operations.

##  July 27, 2017

**FEATURE:**

Organization Policy General Availability

The [ Organization Policy ](https://cloud.google.com/resource-
manager/docs/organization-policy/overview) service gives you central,
programmatic control over your Organization's Cloud resources. It provides a
simple mechanism for you to restrict allowed configurations across your entire
Cloud Resource hierarchy.

##  July 24, 2017

**FEATURE:**

Folders General Availability

Cloud [ folders ](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-
managing-folders) are nodes in the Cloud Platform Resource Hierarchy. A folder
can contain projects, other folders, or a combination of both. You can use
folders to group projects under an organization in a hierarchy. For example,
you organization might contain multiple departments, each with its own set of
Cloud Platform resources. Folders allows you to group these resources on a
per-department basis. Folders are used to group resources that share common
IAM policies.

##  January 01, 2017

**FEATURE:**

Organization Resource Automatic Provisioning

With this launch we made the [ Organization resource
](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/cloud-platform-resource-
hierarchy#organizations) automatically available to all G Suite and Cloud
Identity customers. G Suite customers just need to create a project using
their domain email account and the Organization resource will be automatically
provisioned for them.

