#  Notas de la versión

Esta página documenta las actualizaciones de producción del Servicio de
transferencia de almacenamiento. Recomendamos que los desarrolladores del
Servicio de transferencia de almacenamiento revisen periódicamente esta lista
en busca de nuevos anuncios.

Puedes ver las últimas actualizaciones de productos de todo Google Cloud en la
página [ Notas de la versión de Google Cloud
](https://cloud.google.com/release-notes?hl=es-419) .

Para recibir las últimas actualizaciones de productos, agrega la URL de esta
página a tu [ lector de feeds
](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators) , o agrega
directamente la URL del feed: `
https://cloud.google.com/feeds/storagetransfer-release-notes.xml `

##  July 31, 2020

**FEATURE:**

Transfers from Microsoft Azure Blob Storage are now generally available.

##  March 31, 2020

**FEATURE:**

[ Beta stage ](https://cloud.google.com/products/?hl=es-419#product-launch-
stages) integration with [ VPC Service Controls
](https://cloud.google.com/vpc-service-controls/docs/overview?hl=es-419)

**FEATURE:**

Transfer service on-premises: [ Beta stage
](https://cloud.google.com/products/?hl=es-419#product-launch-stages)
integration with [ VPC Service Controls ](https://cloud.google.com/vpc-
service-controls/docs/overview?hl=es-419)

##  March 23, 2020

**FEATURE:**

Transfer Service for on-premises data is now generally available. For more
information, see [ Transfer Service for on-premises data Overview
](https://cloud.google.com/storage-transfer/docs/on-prem-overview?hl=es-419) .

**FEATURE:**

Storage Transfer Service now offers Beta support for transfers from Microsoft
Azure Blob Storage.

##  March 20, 2020

**FEATURE:**

Storage Transfer Service supports [ Pub/Sub notifications for transfer jobs
](https://cloud.google.com/storage-transfer/docs/pub-sub-transfer?hl=es-419)
for external cloud provider to Cloud Storage transfers.

##  March 16, 2020

**FEATURE:**

Storage Transfer Service now allows you to specify files to transfer based on
their [ last modification times ](https://cloud.google.com/storage-
transfer/docs/reference/rest/v1/TransferSpec?hl=es-419#ObjectConditions.FIELDS.last_modified_since)
.

##  March 09, 2020

**FEATURE:**

Storage Transfer Service supports [ custom job IDs
](https://cloud.google.com/storage-
transfer/docs/reference/rest/v1/transferJobs?hl=es-419#TransferJob.FIELDS.name)
.

##  December 04, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Storage Transfer Service for on-premises is now in beta.

##  September 05, 2019

**FEATURE:**

API documentation update to clarify transferJobs API descriptions,
specifically: scheduleStartDate, scheduleEndDate, and startTimeOfDay.

##  August 05, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Updates to API documentation.

##  March 20, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Adding new IAM roles for Storage Transfer Service.

##  August 06, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Updated documentation for configuring access to the data sink.

##  December 07, 2017

**FEATURE:**

Documentation updates for IAM permissions.

##  September 18, 2017

**FEATURE:**

Documentation update for access control.

##  September 07, 2017

**FEATURE:**

Updates to API documentation.

##  August 31, 2016

**FEATURE:**

Documentation update that provides clearer instructions for configuring a
Cloud Storage data source.

##  August 25, 2016

**FEATURE:**

Documentation update to add information for configuring access to a data sink
and supported AWS regions.

##  June 15, 2016

**FEATURE:**

API documentation update.

##  April 25, 2016

**FEATURE:**

Documentation updates and content reorganization.

##  April 04, 2016

**FEATURE:**

Updates to API documentation for scheduling jobs.

##  February 23, 2016

**FEATURE:**

Documentation update to support scheduling recurring transfers with Cloud
Console.

##  December 12, 2015

**FEATURE:**

Updated Getting Started document for changes to the Create Transfer workflow.

##  September 23, 2015

**FEATURE:**

Several updates to API documentation.

##  August 06, 2015

**FEATURE:**

Documentation includes instructions for enabling API for non-UI users.

##  August 05, 2015

**FEATURE:**

API documentation now includes "Try It" sections.

##  July 28, 2015

**FEATURE:**

Documentation update for using prefixes in Storage Transfer Service user
interface.

##  July 22, 2015

**FEATURE:**

Storage Transfer Service, a cloud-to-cloud transfer tool, launched.

