#  Release notes

This page documents production updates to Text-to-Speech. You can periodically
check this page for announcements about new or updated features, bug fixes,
known issues, and deprecated functionality.

You can see the latest product updates for all of Google Cloud on the [ Google
Cloud release notes ](/release-notes) page.

To get the latest product updates delivered to you, add the URL of this page
to your [ feed reader
](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators) , or add the feed
URL directly: ` https://cloud.google.com/feeds/tts-release-notes.xml `

##  May 01, 2020

**FEATURE:**

Cloud Speech-to-Text now offers 25 new voices (both Standard and WaveNet) in
the following languages. See the [ Supported Voices and Languages
](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-speech/docs/voices) page for complete
details.

  * Arabic 
  * Bengali (India) 
  * English (India) 
  * French (France) 
  * German (Germany) 
  * Gujarati (India) 
  * Hindi (India) 
  * Indonesian (Indonesia) 
  * Kannada (India) 
  * Malayalam (India) 
  * Mandarin Chinese 
  * Russian (Russia) 
  * Tamil (India) 
  * Telugu (India) 
  * Thai (Thailand) 

##  August 27, 2019

**FEATURE:**

Cloud Text-to-Speech now offers 76 new voices, both standard and WaveNet, in
the following languages:

  * Arabic 
  * Czech 
  * Dutch 
  * English (India) 
  * Filipino 
  * Finnish 
  * Greek 
  * Hindi 
  * Hungarian 
  * Indonesian 
  * Italian 
  * Japanese 
  * Mandarin Chinese 
  * Norwegian 
  * Vietnamese 

##  February 05, 2019

**FEATURE:**

The [ audio profile ](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-speech/docs/audio-
profiles) feature is generally available for use in new applications. Cloud
Text-to-Speech API now allows developers to specify an audio profile for the
audio generated from Cloud Text-to-Speech API. Audio profiles are optimized
for specific hardware used for playback, from headphones to car stereos.

**FEATURE:**

Added new Standard and WaveNet voices in the following languages and variants:

  * Danish (Denmark) 
  * Polish (Poland) 
  * Portuguese (Brazil) 
  * Russian (Russia) 
  * Slovak (Slovakia) 
  * Turkish (Turkey) 
  * Ukrainian (Ukraine) 

Review the [ voices list ](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-
speech/docs/voices) for complete details.

##  August 28, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Cloud Text-to-Speech API general availability (GA) release.

This release includes the public availability of the v1 API endpoint, both in
[ REST ](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-speech/docs/reference/rest/) and [
RPC ](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-
speech/docs/reference/rpc/google.cloud.texttospeech.v1) .

##  July 24, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Added new WaveNet voices in the following languages and variants:

  * Dutch (Netherlands) 
  * English (Australia) 
  * English (UK) 
  * German 
  * Italian 
  * Japanese 

Review the [ voices list ](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-
speech/docs/voices) for complete details.

**FEATURE:**

Cloud Text-to-Speech API now allows developers to specify an [ audio profile
](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-speech/docs/audio-profiles) for the audio
generated from Cloud Text-to-Speech API. Audio profiles are optimized for
specific hardware used for playback, from headphones to car stereos.

##  June 01, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Added Korean (ko-KR) voice. Review the [ voices list
](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-speech/docs/voices) for complete details.

##  March 27, 2018

**FEATURE:**

Cloud Text-to-Speech API is now available in beta.

##  March 20, 2018

**CHANGED:**

The names of voices provided for speech synthesis in the Text-to-Speech API
have changed. Previous versions of the voice names do not work. To see the
list of voices provided in the Text-to-Speech API including the correct names,
see the [ voice list ](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-speech/docs/voices) .

##  March 02, 2018

**CHANGED:**

The ` gender ` field changed to ` ssmlGender ` .

##  February 02, 2018

**CHANGED:**

Add voices in the following languages:

  * English (US) 
  * French (Canada) 
  * Dutch 
  * Portuguese (Brazil) 
  * Swedish 
  * Turkish 

See the [ voices list ](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-speech/docs/voices)
for complete details.

##  November 10, 2017

**FEATURE:**

Cloud Text-to-Speech API Alpha release.

