#  Release Notes

This page documents production updates to Cloud Tools for Visual Studio. You
can check this page for announcements about new or updated features, bug
fixes, known issues, and deprecated functionality.

You can see the latest product updates for all of Google Cloud on the [ Google
Cloud release notes ](/release-notes) page.

To get the latest product updates delivered to you, add the URL of this page
to your [ feed reader
](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_feed_aggregators) , or add the feed
URL directly: ` https://cloud.google.com/feeds/cloud-tools-for-visual-studio-
release-notes.xml `

##  May 22, 2018

**CHANGED:**

Version 1.3.0

**FEATURE:**

This release adds a project selector dialog box that is accessible from the
Cloud Explorer. The selector includes search functionality to help you to find
your projects quickly and easily.

**CHANGED:**

This release now provides two templates when creating a new project: one
template for ASP.NET and one for ASP.NET Core.

**FEATURE:**

This release adds information about opting in or out of [ sending your
anonymous usage statistics ](https://cloud.google.com/tools/visual-
studio/docs/usage-reporting) to Google.

##  October 12, 2017

**CHANGED:**

Version 1.2.10.0

**CHANGED:**

Previously, you had to choose from 4 different templates when creating a new
ASP.NET project for Google Cloud Platform. Now, the extension provides you
with a single, consolidated template for creating your project.

**CHANGED:**

This release uses the .NET Core GA images for deploying apps to App Engine and
GKE. As a result, you no longer need to use the Beta component of ` gcloud ` .

##  August 16, 2017

**CHANGED:**

Version 1.2.8.0

**FEATURE:**

You can [ use the Stackdriver Logs Viewer
](https://cloud.google.com/tools/visual-studio/docs/log-viewer) to review your
logs.

**FEATURE:**

You can [ access and view Stackdriver error reports
](https://cloud.google.com/tools/visual-studio/docs/stackdriver-errors) in
Cloud Tools for Visual Studio.

**FEATURE:**

You can [ attach the Visual Studio remote debugger
](https://cloud.google.com/tools/visual-studio/docs/remote-debugging) to
processes on a Compute Engine VM running Windows.

**FEATURE:**

You can [ browse and manage Cloud Storage buckets
](https://cloud.google.com/tools/visual-studio/docs/browse-storage) , along
with their contents, that exist on your current project.

**FEATURE:**

You can [ browse and manage Cloud Pub/Sub
](https://cloud.google.com/tools/visual-studio/docs/browse-pubsub) resources
with Cloud Tools for Visual Studio.

**FEATURE:**

You can [ browse and manage Cloud Source Repositories
](https://cloud.google.com/tools/visual-studio/docs/source-repo) with Cloud
Tools for Visual Studio.

